1. An asteroid is a minor planet of the inner Solar System. They are metallic or rocky bodies without atmospheres. The size and shapes of asteroids vary significantly including even dwarf planets but not planets. Most known asteroids orbit within the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, generally in relatively low-eccentricity(i.e. not very elongated) orbits. Near-Earth asteroids, or NEAs, are asteroids that have orbits that pass close to that of Earth. Asteroids that cross Earth's orbital path are known as earth-crossers. As of April 2022, 28,772 near-Earth asteroids are known; 878 have a diameter of one kilometer or more significant. There is increasing interest in identifying asteroids whose orbits across earth's, and that could be given enough time, to collide with Earth. If a rocky meteoroid larger than 25 meters but smaller than one kilometer (a little more than 1/2 mile) were to hit Earth, it would likely cause local damage to the impact area. We believe anything more significant than one to two kilometers (one kilometer is a little more than one-half mile) could have worldwide effects. Calculating the diameter of an Asteroid is a complex task and in this case study, I will try to predict the diameter of an asteroid. Knowing the diameter of an asteroid will help us to make proactive decisions to tackle asteroids there are many asteroid deflection strategies either we can change the path of the asteroid or make it collide with some projectile from earth to destroy it outside earth only.

2. I am using a dataset that is publicly available on Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/basu369victor/prediction-of-asteroid-diameter) this data is obtained by a user Victor Basu from https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/sbdb_query.cgi. 

3. I started with basic data cleaning followed by Exploratory Data Analysis. Moving forward I did advance data cleaning and data preprocessing, I experimented with different machine learning models and got an R1 score of 0.98 on my test dataset for the linear regression model.
